Support for Multiple Mobile Platforms
Apple iOS, Android (pwa)

Browser and Native App Support
An enterprise app store should allow the apps to 
be downloaded on the device from the browser via a
URL or through an enterprise market app 
-- similar to the Google Play Store or iTunes App store.

Secure
Integrate the app store with the enterprise
single sign-on or identity management system
and MDM (Mobile Device Management) solution 
if available. App downloads should be on 
a secure SSL (HTTPS) or secure VPN tunnel.
Your app store should NOT allow downloads via an 
unsecured network connection.

Access Control
Only users that are authorized should be able to download 
and install an app. Authorization can work off of a
server side ACL
(access control list) that is driven by user, role and 
designation and group authorizations.
For example, an employee working in buildings and
facility management should not be allowed to download
a mobile app that is intended for sales operations.

Push Notifications
Administrators should be able to send notifications
using the push capability of the supported mobile platforms.
The notifications alert the user about available updates for apps installed on the device.

Over the Air Updates
Both Android and iOS (5.x) now support OTA (over the air updates) for updating existing apps, installing patches and other maintenance related fixes. An enterprise app store should include a feature to push the updates to the device and notify users through the notification system on the device.

Device Registration and Management
An enterprise app store should include the database of users, devices and apps. This can also be done by using MDM software and integrating it with the app store. In an enterprise, a user may have multiple mobile devices. Similarly, devices may be shared with different users, each having a different account and profile on the device.

Administrative Console, Centralized Management and Control
An easy-to-use, Web-based administrative console is an essential feature that allows administrators to approve new apps or updates to existing ones. It also allows them to retire, archive and remove apps when necessary.

gIdentifying Malicious Code
Malicious software including Trojan apps are a big problem in public app stores, and an enterprise app store could also be susceptible to such attacks from an internal party like a disgruntled employee, or from the packaging of third-party software and services bundled with in-house enterprise apps. The app store should provide ways to identify, prevent and take down apps that do not adhere to the organization's code of conduct.

Publishing Process
Support for submission, approval and withdrawal of apps aligned to policy
